So today's detailed video is for those who are about to get
married, those who are about to get
married or those who are already married, newly married
and someone who is planning for kids, so this
video is for those who are on the family planning route, we will talk about maternity plans, so
many times you ask
that I did not get maternity cover
in my insurance, so understand this thing that
by default
maternity is not covered in your health insurance policies, delivery cost is
not covered, maternity is not covered in most of the policies.
Either you have to
take separate maternity policies or
you have to add some add-ons so that
you can get maternity cover.  Delivery costs,
newborn baby expenses, vaccination
expenses can be covered but
with proper planning.  So today we will
share with you six such policies which are
related to maternity.  We will talk about
how much benefit will be available in maternity, is there a waiting
period, when should the policy be taken,
who should take it?  And we will
also talk about other benefits.  So if you are one of those
people we talked to, who are going to get
married or who are newly married
or who are on the family planning way,
all these plans are for them, if they are doing research
then this is where your research ends you get everything here,
meaning you will get the complete
ultimate comparison here,
before starting the video I
would like to introduce myself, my name is Gudlin Gatiko,
I am a Certified Financial Planner, I am
associated with the insurance industry for the last 20 years and every week I
bring videos for you so that your
insurance bank journey becomes easy and happy
because the tagline of our company is
also Creating a Wealth of
Happiness.  Let's move on to the video.  We will
compare six plans.  What are these six plans
?  The first one is the Nima Hupa Aspire
Plan Titanium Plus.  The second is HDFC
Ergo Optima Secure.  Third is ICIC
Labard Health Elevage.  Fourth is Aditya
Birla Active Fit Plan Preferred.  Fifth
is Manipal Singhana Saravaha Plan Uttam Plan
and Sixth is Star Health Women Care
Plan.  So, the common thing in these plans is
that there is maternity coverage.  So first of all,
when should one take this plan?  This should be
taken before conception.  Should be taken before conceiving.  If you buy these policies
after conceiving,
you will not get maternity cover in these policies.
Because all these policies come with a
waiting period for maternity.
Maternity is not covered from day one.  I get calls quite often.
After conception comes
now my wife has conceived or now I have
conceived.  I want to buy a health
insurance policy that
also covers my delivery costs.  Do it.  Also cover new born baby
expenses.  But it is
not possible at that time.  So
you have to take it before conceiving.  So if you are planning then this is
actually the right time
to buy.  Because you will also have to serve some waiting periods.
So let
me tell you briefly about the coverage.  Then we will
go into the details of the plans to see
what is covered.  Like in Nivea Aspire you have
Miracle Benefit.  Which is an inbuilt
benefit.  Miracle
Benefit, which is complete parenthood, is a part of this policy.  Where
your delivery cost is covered,
both normal or cesarean, where IVF
treatment is also covered.  Where
surrogacy is covered and adoption is also covered.
So all these have a specified
limit.  Maternity: It is not like that
if you take a policy of Rs 1 crore, you will
get maternity coverage up to Rs 1 crore.  There will always be
a fixed limit for each policy.
So the maximum coverage in NIMA book
is Rs 75,000 which you can avail
for maternity and the waiting period will be 9
months.  So here is a unique feature
which is called fast forward.  So the
maximum maternity limit is Rs
25,000, this is decided according to the sum assured.
You get Rs 25,000
in a policy of Rs 50 lakh.  And if you
pay the premium for 3 years together, which is
called fast forward, then your maternity cover
also becomes 3x.  So instead of Rs 25,000, the maximum
you can claim is Rs 75,000.
Another unique feature is what is called future
ready.  Meaning, if you are single right now and you
know that you will get married in a year, then you
can take this policy.  You
can add your spouse later.  So the
waiting period for the spouse will be waived off.
Future Ready is that benefit.  It is only
available with Nima Bupa.  Next, HDFC
Hergo Optima Sure also has a
new rider called Parent Hood Rider.
I also made a detailed video about the new
riders introduced by HDFCO.  So
parenthood is one of the riders that covers your
delivery cost.  So
your delivery costs are covered in parenthood.
Normal, Caesarean, IVF are covered.
Your embryo freezing cost will also be
covered.  Along with this, prenatal and post
natal expenses which are the first expenses related to maternity,
mother's consultations, the
expenses that happen after maternity delivery, that is
called post natal, will also be
covered, in fact, they are covered in Neeva Bhupa as
well, so prenatal and post natal
expenses will also be covered,
if the newborn baby needs any hospitalization, then that is
also covered, the maximum
cover available is up to ₹2 lakh, you
can choose ₹0000, ₹1 lakh, ₹150000 or
₹ lakh, accordingly your premium will be charged
and the waiting period is two years,
you took the policy today, it will be covered only if the delivery happens after two years.
And
as I told you, you will get a fixed amount of up
to ₹2 lakh.  The third is ICIC
Low LBA Health Daily.  You can also take maternity cover in this.
This is 10% of sum
assured.  Whatever your sum assured is,
you can take 10% of it as maternity i.e. delivery cost.  The
maximum limit is ₹1 lakh.  Only ₹1
lakh will be available in ICICI LBA Health Element in Maternity.  The
waiting period for maternity
in ICIC Low LBAD LWET is 2 years.  Will be
covered only after 2 years.  So its
maternity expenses rider is different,
newborn baby coverage rider is different and
vaccination expenses rider is different.
So if you want all three benefits, you will have to
choose all three riders separately.
Like in IVP you have a single rider.  HDFC
also has a single rider.  There
are three different riders here.
You can choose according to what you want.  Next comes
Aitya Birla Activ Preferred Plan.
Maternity expenses are inbuilt here too.
You do not have to take any add-on separately.
You will get ₹40,000 for normal delivery and ₹0000 for C-section.
Manipal Signal Sarvaha Uttam Plan.  In this
also you can take rider for maternity and newborn baby
hospitalization expenses.
20% of sum assured will be covered.  The
maximum cover is ₹5 lakh which
covers delivery, newborn baby expenses and first year vaccinations of the child.  The
waiting period will be 36 months.  You can claim for maternity only
after 36 months i.e. after 3 years.
Next is Star Health's Women Care
Plan.  Here also the limit is specified
for delivery.  It is inbuilt in your policy,
since it is a women care plan, it is a women
specific plan.  The maximum cover
you get is Rs 1 lakh on a policy of Rs 1 crore,
but delivery.  So two deliveries are
covered.  As
I told you, in all the policies, the policy has to be taken before conception.
If you need to cover delivery costs and
new born baby expenses.
But Star Health is such a policy which will provide
policy even during pregnancy.  You should
check exactly in which month it is
and in which month the eligibility becomes.
But it is subject to conditions.  We will do a
complete scan of you.  We will
give you the policy on that basis.  We will not pay the delivery cost
but will pay newborn baby expenses up
to 25% of the sum assured.
Apart from this, there are some defined limits for maternity newborn baby coverage,
I am presenting them before you.
Like here we have said that the
limit for assisted reproduction is ₹ lakh.  If there
is a policy of Rs 1 crore.  This limit
is specified.  If the policy is worth Rs 5 lakh then it is ₹00, if it is worth Rs 1 lakh then it is
₹1.5 lakh, if the policy is worth Rs 1 crore then it is ₹
lakh.  Antenatal care is available for ₹000.  IVF
Ventary Sterilization Expenses Covered up
to Sum Insured.  In case of miscarriage due to
accident, you get a lump sum of Rs 40,000 in Rs 50
lakh and Rs 1 crore policies.  The delivery
expenses that I told you, ranging from Rs 25,000 to Rs
1 lakh, will be covered.
Depending on the sum assured you
choose.  Hospitalization expenses for new
born will be covered at 25% of sum assured.
Vaccination expenses will be given for up
to 12 months.  2500, 2500,
3500, Higher Sum Assured Pay 3500 will be given for one year.
Metabolic screening will also be given for Rs
3500 for each new born.  Patient
consultations will be given,
you can take four consultations per year up to 12 years of
age, Rs 500 will be given as the cost of consultation.
So now let us talk about newborn
baby expenses.  Newborn baby
expenses covered under NIVAPA up to sum assured
are automatically added
after delivery.  Newborn baby expenses are also covered in HDFC Ago.
If you have taken Newborn Baby Expenses Rider in your ICICI NAD Health Elevate, then the expenses will be
covered there.
Which is twice the maternity
cost.  If you have received maternity benefit of ₹1 lakh,
then
newborn baby expenses up to ₹1 lakh are covered for up to
90 days of hospitalization.
Newborn baby is also covered in Aditya Birla Active Fit
with the maternity limit
specified at Rs. 40,000-60,000 and
newborn baby expenses are covered under the same.
Your vaccination, newborn baby
expenses and delivery cost are included in the maternity limit of Maranpal Singhana Sarvam, which is maximum 5 lakhs.
25% off sum
assured is the newborn baby expenses at Star Women Care.
Vaccinations Vaccinations are not covered at Nima Bupa Aspire.
Vaccinations for newborn babies will also not be covered under HDFC Arbo Optima Secure.
In ICC Load Health Elevate, I had told you to
take separate rider vaccination for new
born baby.  1% of sum assured will be given.
You can get a maximum reimbursement of ₹10,000 in a year.
Vaccination expenses are also included in the same limit at Aditya Birla Active Fit.  Then we came to
Anpal Singhana Sir Uttam.  Here too,
vaccination expenses are covered within the same limit of Rs 5 lakh,
which is a maximum of Rs 5 lakh.
In Star Women Care, we had
talked in detail about how much vaccination will be available.  Let
me show you the table again.
Here the vaccination expenses are as per the
sum assured.  Maximum Rs 3500 will be
given in a Rs 1 crore policy.  So this is the
maternity specific coverage
for which this video has actually been made.  Let us
also understand the basic features of these plans.
Detailed Videos: If you
like any specific plan and
want to buy it, then its individual
detailed video is also available on our channel.
So first let's talk about basic room
eligibility.  So there are
no room rent restrictions at Neevapa Aspire.
You can take any room.  There is no
room rent restriction in HDFC and Optima Secure also.  Then
Comes ICIC LBA Health Elevate
by default is single private AC room.   If
you want to upgrade it, you can do so with the Room Modification
Rider.  There are no
room rent restrictions at Aditya Birla Active Fit either.
Manipal Singhana Sir
Plan has single private AC room.  Room
modification rider is available which allows you to
upgrade your room.  Then comes
Star Health Women's Plan.  In that,
if your sum assured for the room is 5 lakhs then 1% of
sum assured will be given to you.  If your sum
assured is 10 15 20 25 then you can go for
higher room category also and if it is 50 less or
one more then you can go for any room.
Minimum and maximum entry age.
What is the minimum entry age and
what is the maximum entry age to take the policy.  Having said that
once you take the policy, it is
renewed for life long.
You can renew it anytime in between, that is, as long as you
want.  There is no maximum
limit.  There is no age limit.  The
minimum entry age in Neema Bupa is 18
years.  Maximum 65 years.  Children
Dependent children who can be added 91
days to 30 years.  The
minimum entry age at HDFC Ergo Optima Secure is 18.   There
is no maximum limit.  Dependent
children can be added from 91 days to 25 years.  The
minimum entry age for ICICI Lo LAD Health Elevate is 18 years.
Maximum is 125 years which is again no
room no maximum entry age and children from 91 days to
30 years can be added as dependents.
In Aditya Birla Active Fit,
you can take this policy only between the age of 18 to 45.  You
can take this policy only if you are a young couple.  It is specifically made for that purpose.  It is
for young couples.
You can join this policy between the age of 18 to 45.  The
minimum entry age for ManipalCigna Saravaha plan is 18.  There
is no maximum limit and children from 91 days to 30 years can be
added as dependent
children.  The minimum entry age for four women's health care programs is
18.  The maximum
is 75 years.  Dependent children can
remain in the add-on for 91 days to 25 years.  30 Years for
Female.  Policy tenure available is one
year, two years, three years.
You know if you
take a policy for two years, three years together then
you get benefits.
Discounts are available. Multi tenure
discounts.  Then comes some assured options.
Minimum and Maximum Sum Assured
Minimum sum assured available in Nivair is 5 lakhs and
maximum is 1 crore. In HDFC the minimum is 5 lakhs and
maximum is 2 crores. In IC Lo LBA Elevate the
minimum is 5 lakhs and maximum is unlimited
coverage. In Aditya Bill Active Plan
minimum sum assured is 5 lakhs and maximum is 1
crore. In Manipal Cigna Sarvaha the minimum is 5 lakhs and
maximum is 3 crores. In Star Women
Care, options ranging from 5 lakhs to 1 crore are
available. Let us talk about no claim bonus.
What benefit do you get if you do not take a claim in the policy?
Booster benefit is available in Niva due to which
your sum assured goes up to 10 times.  It is
defined according to age.   This
means that whatever sum assured you have not used will be carried
forward to the next
year and can be used up to a maximum of 10 times.  HDFC
Arbo Optimus Secure has a loyalty addition which is
50% off your sum assured will be
added next year.  and 50% of that the following
year.  By doing this, 100% will be added in the next two years.
20%
is your cumulative bonus in ICICI Lombard Elevate.  Guaranteed
Cumulative Bonus up to a maximum of 100% will be
added to your policy.  In Aditya Birla
Active Fit, you will be given 10% of sum assured
every year.  If you do not take the claim, the
maximum amount will go up to 100%.
Singhana Saravaha Uttam Plan has a Gullak
rider which you can add for no
claim bonuses.  And because of Gullak your
sum assured goes up to 10 times.  Will
increase by 100% every year up to a maximum of 10 times.  Star
Women policy has a no claim bonus of 20%
going up to a maximum of 100%.  Day Care
Procedures: So day care procedures
are covered in your policies up to some Assure
refill benefit, let's talk about that.
Neema Bopa Aspire has unlimited
restore benefit.  There is unlimited refill
benefit.  Suppose you have a policy of Rs 10 lakh
and you used the entire amount in one year.
Again ₹1 lakh will be added for second
hospitalization for any member, any illness,
any hospitalization but it has to be a
different hospitalization.  Same is the case with HDFC Ergo
Secure.  One time restore
is included in the policy.  If 10 lakhs is exhausted
then 10 lakhs will be added again.
To make it unlimited, you
can add an add-on by paying a nominal price.
Which is called Unlimited Restore.
Unlimited restore rider is also available in ICICI Low LMA Elevate.
Aditya Birla
also offers bench refills in Activ Fit.  Which is
again unlimited restore.  In Manipal Cigna Sir
Plan you are an added rider i.e. add on.
You can add for getting this
benefit.  Meaning, if you want this unlimited restore,
you can add it by paying an additional premium.
Star Health Women Care
offers automatic restoration of months to a
year for any illness.  Emergency Road
Ambulance.  Neema Aspire covers S
per actuals up to sum assured.  HDFC
Secure also has Ace per actuals.  ICIC
Low LBA Elevate also has Actuals on S
up to Sum Assured.  Aditya Birla Active
Fit covers you at Actuals if you are a
network hospital.  If it is non-network
then rent will be reimbursed at ₹3000.
Up to Sum Assured is also available in Manipal Cigna Serva
and Up to Sum Assured is also available in Star Women Care as per
Actuals.  Now let's talk about
air ambulance.  So air
ambulance is your domestic air ambulance.
Neema Bhupa Aspire has emergency air
ambulance cover up to sum assured.
Up to ₹5 lakh in HDFC.
You can add Edge a Rider to the Icicle Labrador Elevate.
Not inbuilt.  Not covered in Aditya Birla Active Fit.
You can also add a rider for
emergency air ambulance in the Manipal Cigna Sarvaha plan.  Star Health Women
Care offers 10% of the sum assured and
this benefit is available only on policies above Rs 10 lakh.
Complimentary wellness
tests will be provided to you.  Niva is on
cashless basis in Bhupa.  HDFC is
currently on reimbursement basis in Arab.  ICICI
LBAV is also available on a cashless
basis and Aditya Birla ACTIV
is available once a year on a cashless basis.
You can add riders in Manipal Cigna.   What is
not inbuilt is annual health checkup
and once a year available in Star Women Care also.
Now let's talk about some wellness benefits.
Like you walk a certain number of
steps daily.  So
because of that activity you get a discount
at the time of renewal.  Neema Aspire
Wise Benefit is called Live Healthy
Benefit.  Discount available up to 30%.
So your premium can be reduced by up to 30%.
If you maintain regular activity.
This benefit is not available in HDFC Arbo Secure.
ICIC LBA Elevate:
In this also you get benefit up to 20%.
Adityafit offers health returns
up to 50%.  Manipal Cigna has
your Wealthy app.  You get up to 20% benefit
on the basis of steps that you
take.  Star Health Women Care also offers up to 10%
discount depending on the activity you undertake.
Pre and post hospitalization
expenses.  You can reimburse expenses of 60 days before
and 180 days after in Niba Spire.
In HDFC Ergo Optima Secure, you can get reimbursed the expenses of 60 days before and 180 days
after.
90 Days Free & 180 Days Post in ICI Low LBA Delivered.
Aditya Bill Activate
also offers 90 Days Free & 180 Days Post.
Manipal Cigna Sarvaha Uttam plan also offers
90 days free.  This is a 180 day post.  And
at Star Women Care, you can get reimbursed 60 and 90 days
pre and post hospitalization
expenses.  So
here you cannot incur pre and
post hospitalization expenses related to maternity.
But if you are hospitalized for anything else, it
is covered.
Modern Treatments Robotic Surgeries.  So there is
no sublimit in Nima Pupa Aspire.
It is covered up to some assured.  All
modern treatments, all robotic surgeries.   There is
no sublimit in HDFC Secure also.  It is
not submitted in ICICI Dombat also.
Actuals are also covered on S in Aditya Birla Active Fit.  Money Signal
Sarawaha Plan also has S per Actuals.
Only sublimate is in Star Women Care.
What is Subliment?  let's watch.  So the sum is as per
assured.  If your sum assured is Rs 5 lakh to Rs 15
lakh, then 50% will be given.
In modern treatments and robotic surgeries.  If it is 20 to 50 lax then 40% will be
given.  If the amount is between Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore, then 30% of the
sum assured will be given to you.  Now let's talk about
waiting periods,
what are the waiting periods in these policies?
Specific exclusions are the waiting period
which we know is
2 years waiting period for slow growing illness in all the plans.
Pre-existing disease: If there is any pre-existing
disease, what is the waiting period for it
?  NEVAPA This plan has a
waiting period of three years for pre-existing
conditions.  There are some conditions for which
you can bring the waiting period up to 30 days.
Which is BP and Diabetes by paying
additional premium.  HDFC Ago Secure also has a
waiting period of three years for pre-
existing conditions.  But there are some conditions
in which you can choose ABCD rider and get it for
30 days.  Which is
asthma, BP, cholesterol, diabetes.   The
waiting period for IC Labrador Elevate is
three years of pre-existing.
You can also bring ABCD conditions to IC Lumbard in
30 days with Jump
Start Rider.  You can get it by paying additional premium.
Manipal Cigna Sir Plan
is available.  There
is a waiting period of three years in that too but riders can be added.
Which is called charioteer.  The Aditya Active
Fit plan has a waiting period of three
years for pre-existing conditions.   The
waiting period for Manipal Cigna Sarvaha plan is also
three years.  But you can add a rider
which is called Sarathi so
that you can get PD conditions for 30 days.
Specified PD conditions.  Star
Women Care Policy has a waiting period of two years
for pre-existing conditions.  Now let us
revise the maternity waiting period once again.  The Nevapa Aspire plan is for
9 months.  HDFC Ago you have
2 years in secure.  ICICI LBD Elevate
Plan also has a tenure of two years.  Aditya Birla
Active Fit Plan has a waiting period of 36 months.
But you can reduce it by
paying additional premium.  You can bring it after 24 months
for maternity waiting.  Then comes
Manipal Cigna Sir.  So here the waiting
period will be 36 months for maternity.
In Star Women Care we talked about sum
assured.  If the
sum assured is above Rs 15 lakh, then there is a waiting period of one year.  If the
sum assured is below that, there is a
waiting period of two years for maternity
expenses.  Finally, I am sharing with you the
premium For a Family of
Two.  Here I have taken the ages 34 and 30.  These
are the premiums for Zone One.  And I will
also specify the maternity expenses.  How much will be
given in how much sum assured.  So
these are premiums worth Rs 10 lakh.  You can choose the
rider you want according to your age and your zone.
In the first plan, your premium is Rs 10 lakh and
maternity expenses
are Rs 25451, which you will get after 9 months.
Then comes HDFC Arbo Optima
Secure ₹42,000 premium for two
adults aged 34 and 30 at 10 lakh rupees.
50000 I had selected maternity expenses in this which is
covered after two
years.  Your ICICI Lo LBA Elvet
premium is
₹66445 plus expenses is ₹1 lakh and
you will get it after 2 years, that is,
you will pay the premium for 2 years and 3 years, then you can avail then
comes Aditya Birla Active
Fit premium of 10 lakh, ₹18000 will be given
in normal, ₹0000 will be given in caesarean,
₹0000 waiting period is 36 months.
In Manipal Singhana Sarvaha Uttam plan, the
premium with maternity rider is
42170 and the maternity cover is ₹2 lakh with the
waiting period of 36 months, so
you will pay the premium for 3 years i.e. four years, after that
you will get this claim.  In Star Women Care,
we calculated the premium as ₹18,000
and the maternity benefit will be ₹50,000
with a waiting period of 2 years as
it is a policy of ₹10 lakh.  So these were the details
from my side for the top six maternity
plans that are available in the market right now.
You can do research.  If you
like any policy, you
can also check the detailed video individually.
We will put it in the description box.  If you have
any questions, please share in the comment
section.  If you want to connect with our team, you can
connect with the team.  There
contact number and WhatsApp details are
given.  You can fill out a Google form.  We
will contact you back.  And before we go, a
quick reminder, if you have
n't subscribed to our channel yet, please do so.
So that you get the right infection at the right
time.  See you in the next video
with a new topic.  Till then stay safe, take
care.  Bye-bye.